Basic logos storage roadmap (#296)
logos-co/roadmap: content/storage/furps/frontends-filesharing.md

# Serving Frontends, Modules, and Files

## Functionality

1. **File sharing.** Any user in the network should be able to share files (frontend bundles and modules) such that those can be downloaded by any other user in the network.
1. **Content addressability.** Files should be addressable by a content identifier, such that users are sure that the content they download is the content they expect.
1. **Organic replication.** Users that download a file should be able to provide it to other users in the network.

> 1. **Caching and storing.** Nodes should allow files to be either _cached_ or _stored_. Caching is constrained by a quota, and any file placed onto a node node should be cached unless explicitly told otherwise. Cached files are _evicted_ once the node runs out of quota. Optionally, a file might be marked as _stored_, at which point it no longer occupies the caching quota, and is simply preserved on disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Caching and storing.** Nodes should allow files to be either _cached_ or _stored_. Caching is constrained by a quota, and any file placed onto a node should be cached unless explicitly told otherwise. Cached files are _evicted_ once the node runs out of caching quota in a LRU manner. Optionally, a file might be explicitly marked as _stored_, at which point it no longer occupies the caching quota, and is simply preserved on disk. Storage space is limited by a separate storage quota.
```

Author: I'm not sure I want to commit to LRU eviction here. I'm also not sure it makes sense to have quotas for explicitly stored files - we just use your disk until it runs out. It's different from caching in which you expect storage to manage it somehow and not fill your disk with nonsense.

## Usability

> 1. **C API.** A C API with the proper primitives for publishing and downloading files by address and pinning is published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **C API.** A C API with primitives for publishing and downloading files by address is published.
```

1. **Logos Core.** The filesharing client is published as a working Logos Core module.

> 1. **Zero-config networking.** Within the possibilities of current technology, user should not have to take any extra steps; e.g. opening ports on a router, to get file sharing working.[^1]

Reviewer: I assume that bootstrap nodes fall into this category as well?

Author: Yeah definitely.

> 1. **File search.** Accessing a file requires knowledge of a file identifier; i.e., a Content ID (CID). We assume that the user will obtain these CIDs out-of-band, either directly from other users or through an external indexing/discovery service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **File search.** Accessing a file requires knowledge of a file identifier; i.e., a Content ID (CID). User must obtain these CIDs out-of-band, either directly from other users or through an external indexing/discovery service.
```
